Hi,

I've attached the dwg files that I've used tot create the cardboard digicomp (for images, see http://icarus.cs.uiuc.edu/friendsofdigicomp). They're called 'Cardboard Digi Comp I - AutoCAD drawings.zip'

I just noticed that NoahSpurrier just yesterday uploaded some drawings, too. One created in San Francisco and the other one in Western Europe, I guess we have one for both hemispheres of the globe now :-)

OK. As far as my drawings are concerned, they're meant to be plotted at 80%, so the computer fits on 5 sheets of A4 paper. I can't remember the exact plotting options in autocad, I guess one should fiddle a bit to find out.

After printing they were spray-glued on cardboard and cut out.

The tubes should be printed on 80 gr paper and rolled onto a 4 mm diameter cylinder.

The images are traced from the scans that were available in the same folder. As I didn't understand how the machine was supposed to work at first, I wasn't able to know for sure about some of the details. Though, it will fit together and it's possible to make it work. As I didn't have any intention of building another copy, I didn't correct any of the details so far.

When it was cut out and put together, I've been thinking about it for about an hour or so to find out how it was supposed to work. It took me that long before I realised that the logic tubes were not for pushing, but that they're only used to prevent a rod from turning. Knowing that, I had to reshape the tubes to get it aligned and make it work.

(It's possible to make a toggle using just 1 flip-flop (i.e. A) with 2 clocktubes (set and reset) and 2 logic tubes (set if NOT(A), reset if A) attached to it. This is one of the simpler programs and I think very useful to test the design and see how it works.)

The cutting wasn't very straightforward either and I had to make a special tool to be able to cut the twists and turns in the clock planes. The waves in the I and Y pieces aren't critical.

I've glued the complete structure together to make it strong enough (using 1.25 mm cardboard). Even so, I had to glue T-beams on it to make it rigid enough to work. I don't think that a model using just some heavy paper will work.

I couldn't use rubber bands because 6 of them would implode the machine. So I've made very light springs of hair-thin steel wire that's used to make those kinds of springs of. They aren't used to power any flip-flop movements anyway, so the lighter the better.

If one has a lasercutter or milling machine to its disposal I suggest making a testmodel directly out of a sheet of plastic, like polystyrene, and don't bother with cutting cardboard. Hope this helps to make a test model to improve upon.

Regards,

Sven





